{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Gabriola;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9\tab\tab\tab         \f1\fs48 Design Fundamentals Vocabualary \fs32\par
\fs28\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\f2\fs24 Alternating\par
\fs20 To interchange repeatedly and regularly with one another in time or place; rotate \fs24\par
Asymmetry\par
\fs20 When two halves of something don't match or are unequal\fs24\par
Analogous\par
\fs20 Things can be compared to each other\fs24\par
*Balance\par
\fs20 The relative volume of various sources of sound.\par
\fs24 Biomorphism\par
 \fs20 Elements on naturally occurring patterns or shapes reminiscent of nature and living organisms.\par
\fs24 *Closure\par
\fs20 When an object is incomplete or the interior space of an element is not fully closed, but the viewer perceives a complete shape by filling in the missing information\fs24\par
Collaboration\par
\fs20 The action of working with someone to produce or create something.\fs24\par
Color\par
 \fs20 The quality of an object or substance with respect to light reflected by the object, usually determined visually by measurement of hue, saturationComplementary\par
\fs24 Complementary\fs28  \par
\fs20 Combining in such a way as to enhance or emphasize the qualities of each other or another.\par
\fs24 *Complexity\fs28\par
\fs20 Is a measure of the total number of properties transmitted by an object and detected by an observer\fs24\par
Concept\par
\fs20 An abstract idea ,a general notion\fs24\par
Context\fs20\par
The circumstances that form the setting for an event, statement, or idea, and in terms of which it can be fully understood and assessed.\par
\fs24 *Contrast\par
\fs20 Refers to the arrangement of opposite elements \par
(light vs. dark colors, rough vs. smooth textures, large vs. small shapes,)\fs24\par
*Cool\par
\par
Curvilinear\par
\fs20 Contained by or consisting of a curved line or lines.\fs24\par
Depth\fs20\par
Distance from the nearest to the farthest point of something or from the front to the back.\par
\fs24 Design\fs20\par
 The intentional creation of a plan or specification for the construction of an object or system\par
\fs24 Diagonal\par
\fs20 Joining two opposite corners of a square, rectangle, or other straight-sided shape.\fs24\par
Emphsis\par
\fs20 Special importance, value, or prominence given to something\fs24 .\par
Figure/Ground\par
\fs20 The perception of images by the distinction of objects from a background from which they appear to stand out\fs24\par
*Flow\par
\fs20  Visual movement is used to guide the viewer through the piece. Lines, shapes, color, depth and hierarchy \fs24\par
Focal Point \par
\fs20 The point at which rays or waves meet after reflection or refraction, or the point from which diverging rays or waves appear to proceed.\fs24\par
*Form\par
\fs20 An artist's way of using elements of art, principles of design, and media. Element of art that is three-dimensional and encloses space. Like a shape, a form has length and width, but it also has depth\fs24\par
*Function\par
\fs20  Is a paradigm used to simplify the design of hardware and software devices such as computer software and increasingly, 3D models. \fs24\par
Gestalt\par
\fs20  An organized whole that is perceived as more than the sum of its parts. (unified whole)\fs24\par
*Grid\par
\fs20 Is a structure (usually two-dimensional) made up of a series of intersecting straight (vertical, horizontal, and angular) or curved guide lines\fs24\par
Hierarchy\par
\fs20 The order in which the human eye perceives what it sees. This order is created by the visual contrast between forms in a field of perception.\fs24\par
High Key\par
\fs20 Is a style of lighting for film, television, or photography that aims to reduce the lighting ratio present in the scene.\fs24\par
Hue\par
\fs20 The relative lightness or darkness of a color.\fs24\par
*Isolation\par
\par
Iterative\par
\fs20  Involving repetition such as a sequence of operations or procedures\par
\fs24 Kinetic Empathy\par
\fs20 The object of psychomotor ability is to organize muscle activity in response to stimuli from the environment, and is done by combining several of these skills at the same time.\fs24\par
*Legato\par
\fs20 Bound together\fs24\par
Line\par
\fs20 The path of a dot, point etc. through space and that is always has more length than thickness.\fs24\par
Literal\par
Low Key\par
\fs20 Both High Key images and Low Key images make an intensive use of contrast, but in a very different way\fs24\par
Mass\par
\fs20 A solid body or a grouping of visual elements (line, color, texture, etc.) that compose a solid form. \fs24\par
*Materiality\par
Metaphor\par
\fs20  Is a set of user interface visuals, actions and procedures that exploit specific knowledge that users already have of other domains.\fs24\par
Monochromatic\par
\fs20  Refers to a single hue in a color palette that is expanded upon by adding two, three, or more shade or tints \fs24\par
*Motion\par
\par
*Narrative\par
\fs20 The creator of the narrative .The user or the designer envisions the interaction between the user and designer\fs24\par
Opaque\par
\fs20 Not able to be seen through; not transparent.\par
\fs24 *Open Composition\par
Is the placement or arrangement of visual elements or 'ingredients' in a work of art, as distinct from the subject. \par
*Close Composition\par
\fs20 Is the sort of image where all the elements are arranged neatly inside the frame.\fs24\par
Order\par
\fs20 The formal arrangement of things \fs24\par
Perspective\par
\fs20 The art of drawing solid objects on a two-dimensional surface so as to give the right impression of their height, width, depth, and position in relation to each other when viewed from a particular point.\fs24\par
*Point\par
\par
Proportion\par
\fs20  Balance and how things fit together harmoniously\fs24\par
Proximity\par
\fs20 Nearness or closeness. \fs24\par
Rectilinear\par
\fs20 Contained by, consisting of, or moving in a straight line or lines.\fs24\par
*Repetition\par
Rhythma \par
\fs20 Strong, regular, repeated pattern of movement or sound\fs24 .\par
Saturation\par
\fs20 The state or process that occurs when no more of something can be absorbed, combined with, or added.\fs24\par
*Scale\par
\fs20 Is the size of an object in relation to another object\fs24\par
\fs20 A shape is the form of an object or its external boundary, outline, or external surface, as opposed to other properties such as color, texture or material compositionhape\par
\fs24 *Similarity\par
\par
*Simplicity\par
\par
\par
Size\par
\fs20 The relative extent of something; a thing's overall dimensions or magnitude; how big something is.\fs24\par
Space\par
\fs20 A continuous area or expanse which is free, available, or unoccupied.\fs24\par
*Staccato\par
\par
*Structure\par
\par
Symmetry\par
\fs20 The quality of being made up of exactly similar parts facing each other or around an axis.\par
\fs24 Texture\par
T\fs20 he feel, appearance, or consistency of a surface or a substance.\par
\fs24 Thematic\par
\fs20 Having or relating to subjects or a particular subject.\par
\fs24 *Time\par
\fs20 An arrangement of parts in a structure or a work of art\par
\fs24 *Transformation\par
Translucent\par
\fs20 Allowing light, but not detailed shapes, to pass through; semitransparent\par
\fs22 Transparent\fs20\par
 Allowing light to pass through so that objects behind can be distinctly seen\par
\fs24 Triadic\fs20\par
Relating to or comprising a set of three related people or things.\par
\fs24 Two-Point \par
Unity\par
\fs20 The state of being united or joined as a whole\par
\fs24 *Value\par
Variety\par
\fs20 The quality or state of being different or diverse; the absence of uniformity, sameness, or monotony.\par
\fs24 Vertical\par
\fs20 At right angles to a horizontal plane; in a direction, or having an alignment, such that the top is directly above the bottom\par
*\fs24 Volume\fs20\par
\fs24 White space\par
\par
\f1\fs32\par
}
 